---
layout: default
title: recs-dlp
date: 2026-02-09
---

# recs-dlp

I've had a certain project idea (i.e. one of many) in mind for a while, ever since I switched to a Nokia from 2009. It was for a rather simple task; get music for whenever I'm bored or on public transport that I'd never heard before. It's much easier to do this sort of thing when you have a phone that's not a decade and a half old; get your Spotify or Apple Music or Tidal out. But having to *manually curate* music for myself to listen was a barrier. Because it's a drag. And I don't know what I don't know.

## Roadblocks

In light of [the recent Anna's Archive scrapings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anna%27s_Archive#Spotify_lawsuit), Spotify has recently [changed their API policy.](https://developer.spotify.com/blog/2026-02-06-update-on-developer-access-and-platform-security) The initial idea was to simply peel the names from my Discover Weekly, for which I'd have a weekly cronjob to get onto the SD card for my Nokia. Not only does this mean the little link on my GitHub README is going to cease in functionality, it also means that I can't use Spotify for this little program. I'm not willing to fork over a few quid a month for something I'll only use the odd time (I'm not strictly talking about the program here). 

So I've chosen to be last.fm-centric instead; it's rather under-represented in having little applets made for it, although I never thought to look around for any. Also it's essentially a central repository for where all my listening data goes, dating back to January 12, 2021. According to it, I never missed a day of listening to music since then, until I started using that Nokia.

## Intent

I don't intend for this just to be a utility; it'll also be a learning experience. My usage of C has never quite touched any API, so it'd be fun to see what the story is. Also it'd be my first time creating a project from first principles, instead of contributing little bits to other ones. Licensing, documentation, the like.


## Makefile

I've used them before, but can't recall them off the top of my head.

